Welcome back.
And in this lesson I want to create the ability to actually vote on the friend and I want that actually
to update within the cell that was selected.
So anywhere if we click on any one of these so if we click on the box there the class box.
I want it to initiate it and actually allow us to vote on that element.
So this requires another data attribute.
So let's instead of data roll we're going to add another one and we're going to simply call it data
vote.
So we're going to use this value as our default value for this is going to be zero.
So we're going to start with a value of zero.
And every time it gets clicked then we're going to output it and let's put that zero.
So go back and refresh it and it didn't so go in the right place.
So I need to go down here and this is the one that we're actually going to be updating.
So we're not going to add any classes to it to make it a little bit here in order to update that content.
So what I want you to do is to pause the video take the source code from the last lesson and update
it.
So whenever we click on it that it updates the value so takes the value of data roll not the value of
the inner h M-L and we're making it a little bit more tricky so that we take the data roll value and
increment it by one and then we output that value.
And we also update the value of data roll as well.
So go ahead and try that out.
And I'll show you the solution coming up.
So if you had an opportunity to try that out and we know that earlier we saw that we've got this on
click event and this one basically fires off every time we click on that element.
So we know that this is our place to go and this is where we can do our voting of the content.
And actually I want to do something where I want to rearrange a few things because I think that if we
place this one first then this will look a little bit better.
So we have the ability to click on them and this is also where we're voting.
So we know we've got the information here and we can pull back that information information we'll leave
the message as well.
So we need to pick up.
So not only that date our role we also need to pick up the value of data the vote so get attribute data.
Vote
and let's set that up in a variable called V.
So we also know the let's set that up here so we've got our votes are going to be contained within a
variable v.
So we loop through we're going to grab that data vote value when we're executing the on click there.
So for now instead of Konsole logging that out let's console log the value of v and then we'll determine
what we can do with that value
so update it.
And we're just going to simply log out whatever the value of v is.
So let's refresh this.
Now when we click on it we see we've got the value of zero.
So firstly we need to do is check to see if the value of v is a number and if it's not a number we definitely
need to turn it into a number in order to do something with it.
So let's first try out and do an increment of the new V.
So go back and refresh it and we can see that it is a number it's been returned as a number.
And we're able to increment on it.
So this is great because now we have the ability we're picking up that value that's contained within
here.
And we know that now we can update this value.
So what I want you to do is pause the video and figure out the best way to update this last table.
So using what we used earlier traverse through to the last element of the parent and update the inner
h to melt with the value of the so pause the video and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So there are a number of ways that we can do this so we can simply do this parent and then we can do
last child element.
So that's last child element.
And maybe before we do that let's let's make sure that we know we've got the value of v in there and
this is what I usually do with the console is I just make sure that I'm grabbing that last element so
I am grabbing that last one.
So everything looks good to go.
And I can simply grab that and do dinner and let's just do it in a text that actually doesn't matter.
And we're going to set it to the value of the.
So let's refresh and right now our value should only go to 1 because we're not actually updating the
attribute.
So that's the next part of this is we want to be able to update that attribute value.
So right now all those attribute values are at zero.
And that's why we're not able to increment past one.
So what I want you to do is pause the video and update the value of the attribute so we had an opportunity
to try that out.
So we're trying to do and we did see this earlier.
So we know that we've got get attribute but we also have the ability to set an attribute.
So we want to happen is we want to increment past the value of one.
So the way to do that is to use this and we have to grab that parent again because that's where that
attribute is sitting.
So just as earlier we did get attribute we could also do this course.
So both of these will work and I'm going to leave them both in as an example of different ways of traversing
through the dawn.
So now we know that we're getting to the parent and that's the one that we need.
So we need to set the attribute and the way that we can set the attributes are the same way that we
added in the style.
We can do data value.
So that's our attribute name and we can set it what the value of we see it go back out refresh the page.
And now you can see that you have the ability and actually there should be data vote so may not update
and now save it and now you can see that you have the ability to update and to vote on each one of your
friends within the table.
And this is all done dynamically via javascript.
And of course if we assume as we refresh the page that resets itself.
So it's not being actually stored in a database because it's all front end code.
But this just gives you a better idea of what's available within javascript and what you can do with
attributes and using all of these customized attributes gives you a lot more information that you can
hold within the elements.
And then you can access them via javascript and update them as well via javascript.